---
title: "Never Split the Difference - Chris Voss"
draft: false
tags:
  - book
  - psychology_book
  - 2025
---

### Theme


### Highlights

- Psychotherapy research shows that when  individuals feel listened to, they tend to listen to themselves more carefully and to openly evaluate and clarify their own thoughts and feelings. In addition, they tend to become less defensive and oppositional and more willing to listen to other points of view, which get them to  the calm and logical place where they can be good Getting to Yes problem solvers. [Page - 16]
- Negotiating does not mean browbeating or grinding someone down. It simply means playing the emotional game that human society is set up for. In this world, you get what you ask for; you just have to ask correctly.[Page - 18]
- In negotiation, each new psychological insight or additional piece of information revealed heralds a step forward and allows one to discard one hypothesis in favor of another. You should engage the process with a mindset of discovery. Your goal at the outset is to extract and observe as much information as possible. Which, by the way, is one of the reasons that really smart people often have trouble being negotiators - they're so smart they think they don't have anything to discover. [Page - 25]
- Great negotiators are able to question the assumptions that the rest of the involved players accept on faith or in arrogance, and thus remain more emotionally open to all possibilities, and more intellectually agile to a fluid situation. [Page - 25]
- The less important he make himself, the more important he probably is (and vice-versa). [Page - 26]
- Most people approach a negotiation so preoccupied by the arguments that support their position that they are unable to listen attentively. In one of the most cited research papers in psychology George A. Miller persuasively put forth the idea that we can process only about seven pieces of information in our conscious mind at any given moment. In other words, we are  easily overwhelmed. [Page - 28]
- There's one powerful way to quiet voice in your head and the voice in their head at the same time; treat two schizophrenics with just one pill. Instead of prioritizing your argument-in fact, instead of doing any thinking at all in the early goings about what you're going to say-make your sole and all-encompassing focus the other person and what they have to say. In that mode of true active listening-aided by the tactics. You'll make them feel safe. The voice in their head will begin to quiet down. The goal is to identify what your counterparts actually need and get them feeling safe enough to talk and talk and talk some more about what they want. The latter will help you discover the former. Want s are easy to talk about, representing the aspiration of getting our way, and sustaining any illusion of control we have as we begin to negotiate; need simply survival, the very minimum required to make us act, and so make us vulnerable. But neither want nor needs are where we start; it begins with listening, ,making it about the other people, validating their emotions, and creating enough trust and safety for a real conversation to begin. Page - 28]
- Going too fast is one of the mistakes all negotiators are prone to making. If we're too much in a hurry, people can feel as if they're not being heard and we risk undermining the rapport and trust we've built. There's plenty of research that now validates the passage of time as one of the most important tools for a negotiator. When you slow the process down, you also calm it down. After all, if someone is talking, they're not shooting. [Page - 30]
- When deliberating on a negotiating strategy or approach, people tend to focus all their energies on what to say or do but it how we are that is both the easiest thing to enact and the most immediately effective mode of influence. Our brains don't just process and understand the actions and words of others but their feelings and intentions too, the social meaning of their behavior and their emotions. On a mostly unconscious level, we can understand the minds of others not through any kind of thinking but through quite literally grasping  what the other is feeling. [Page - 32]
- When we radiate warmth and acceptance, conversations just seem to flow, When we enter a room with a level of comfort and enthusiasm, we attract people toward us. Smile at someone on the street, and as a reflex they'll smile back. Understanding that reflex and putting it into practice is critical to the success of just about every negotiating skill there is to learn. [Page - 32]
- Most of the time, you should be using the positive/playful voice. It's the voice of an easygoing, good-natured person. Your attitude is light and encouraging. The key here is to relax and smile while you're taking. A smile, even while talking on the phone, has an impact tonally that other person will pick up on. [Page - 33]
- When people are in a positive frame of mind, they think more quickly, and are more likely to collaborate and problem-solve. It applies to the smile-er as much as to the smile-ee; a smile on your face, and in your voice, will increase your own mental agility. [Page -33]
- Mirroring, also called isopraxism is essentially imitation. It's another neurobehavior humans display in which we copy each other to comfort each other. It can be done with speech patterns, body language, vocabulary, tempo, and tone voice. It's generally and unconscious behavior-we are rarely aware of it when it's happening-but it's a sign that people are bonding, in sync, and establishing the kind of rapport that leads to trust. [Page - 35]
- Mirroring will make you feel  awkward as heck when you first try it. That's the only hard part about it; the technique takes a little practice, once you get the hang of it, through it'll become a conversational swiss army knife valuable in just about every professional and social setting. [Page - 46]

